Now that we have explored the need for
a data pipeline and the potential problem data pipelines consult,
we will break down our data pipeline into its important components.
Let's talk about each one of them.
First, data pipeline component is data origin.
Data origin is where data gets into the pipeline.
Latency constraints of the pipeline are dominated by the type of data origin.
Velocity is driven by datatype,
event based or entity based.
Event data is faster to process compared to entity reference data.
Event data flows as a data stream.
We will talk more about entity and event data in later lessons.
Data might be coming from Data stores,
Transaction systems, Data Warehouse,
Data Lake IoT sensors,
social media, logs, mails, or other documents.
Next, data processing consists of ingestion,
that is, getting data from different sources.
Transformation like cleaning or aggregating,
and finally, delivering data.
Sequence of these events could differ depending on the use case.
Processes could be of many types, MapReduce,
aggregation, blending, sampling, formatting, etc.
The right process and the right sequence will define how
efficiently input data is delivered to the destination.
Then important data pipeline componet is data storage.
Data might be stored as an intermediate step for a pipeline.
Data store could also be data destination.
There are various choices available for data storage.
Again, requirements will define if it is Cloud or On-Prem,
what type of DB is used,
or Data Warehouse, or a Data Lake is used.
Finally, data's destination.
Timeliness is a data destination driven requirement.
How quickly is data needed for the destination is timeliness?
Sometimes a subset of data might be needed in real time and not the whole set.
You recognize what is needed,
Vin, and move data accordingly.
Data destination could be Datastore,
like Data Warehouse, Data Mart, or Data Lake.
It could be an application such as Dashboard,
ML Apps, or Analytics Apps.